- [Instructor] Canary deployments with Flagger,
allow us to reduce the risk
of releasing a new version of an application.
Let's see how it's done.
You'll recall, we have Flux, Flagger,
and the Nginx ingress controller
deployed to our Kubernetes cluster that runs on Azure.
The only problem is,
we don't have an application running on the controller.
To establish our GitOps workflow,
we'll need to set up a source,
and a customization that Flux can use
to deploy an app on the cluster.
So inside of the environment repository,
the flagger folder holds the desired state of our system.
It has YAML manifests that describe a deployment,
an autoscaler, an ingress,
a Canary, and a namespace.
Let's take a look at a few of these Kubernetes resources,
we'll start with the ingress.
You'll notice that the ingress
is configured to route traffic coming into the DNS label
assigned to the Nginx ingress controller.
It passes that traffic to the GitOps foundation service
that will be established by our Canary.
So let's hop up a directory,
and we can take a look at the Canary.
So the first thing you'll notice
about the configuration of the Canary is,
it's pretty intense,
so I'm going to highlight a few key things for you.
You'll notice that the Canary has references
to other resources that we'll deploy on the cluster.
There, you can see our gitops-foundations deployment.
There's a reference to the ingress,
the autoscaler,
and then it establishes a service.
Here, the service is named gitops-foundations-service.
There's going to be kind of a shadow service
that is the Canary version of this established.
And all these components are going to work together
to determine how much traffic is incrementally routed
to the Canary, based upon how it performs.
Now, that's going to be determined by these tests
that are established lower in our configuration.
These are all about how we route test traffic to the Canary,
and then incrementally route more traffic to it.
So, here you can see some of those tests.
All right, so let's get started.
We're going to navigate into a terminal,
and here we can begin our work.
So, the first thing you should do is make sure
that you're in the Flux configuration repository.
We're going to place the custom resources
for the source and the customization here.
So once you're in that repository,
you can go ahead and create the source.
Now, the first thing you'll notice about this source
is that it's the same source we worked with
when we took a look at Flux.
So nothing different here,
let's go ahead and create the source.
And then the next thing we'll need is the customization.
So this customization is very similar
to what we looked at with Flux.
The only difference is it's going to look
for the desired state of the system
in the Flagger directory,
that's the directory we just looked at
in the environment repository.
So, that's where it'll find the manifests.
Okay, let's go ahead.
We can create that definition.
And now if we take a look,
you'll see those two YAML files
defining our source and our customization.
Now remember, Flux is driven through a GitOps approach,
so we need to add those into our repository,
and then we'll commit them,
and then we'll push them up to GitHub
so that Flux can pull these definitions,
and make the source and the customization available
on the cluster.
Okay.
So, that's kicked off.
Let's do one thing while Flux is doing its work.
We're going to set up a load tester on our cluster.
So to do that,
Flagger makes available a load tester
that we can install with helm.
So, I'm going to go ahead and install that load tester.
Whoops! It looks like we got ahead of ourselves there.
It looks like Flux hasn't synced yet,
and created our namespace.
Let's head out to Azure and take a look to see its progress.
So here's our Kubernetes cluster.
And if we navigate into it,
we can take a look at what's being deployed by Flux
onto the cluster.
Okay.
There we can see, we have the Flagger namespace,
just got set up.
There's the gitops-foundations workflow,
which is underway.
You'll notice there's the primary.
And then if we take a look at the services,
there's our service.
You'll notice the primary and the canary.
Okay. Let's head back to the terminal,
and then I'll try that command again
to install the load tester with helm.
Okay. Looks like we're good to go this time.
You'll notice that the load tester establishes an end point
that we can hit to use the service.
Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and clear my console,
and then let's take a look
to see if our Canary has been established.
To do that, we can set up a watch using kubectl,
and we can just look for all the canaries in the namespace.
There we can see our Canary,
and you'll notice it's initialized.
It hasn't had a new release to deploy yet.
So I'm going to open another terminal, and in this terminal,
we can use kubectl to describe our Canary.
Okay.
So you'll notice if we look at the output of this command,
we get some information about the status of our Canary.
You can see that, right now,
it's just synced up, and there's really nothing going on.
That's going to change here in a minute.
Let's first go make sure
that everything is good out on Azure.
So, there's our services.
There, it appears that our pods are up and running.
All right, everything looks pretty good here.
So now we're going to navigate back to GitHub.
And remember,
everything gets driven through Git with GitOps,
so we're going to change our deployment.
Inside of the deployment,
I'm going to go ahead and change this over
to version two of our container image.
And this is going to be progressively delivered by Flagger.
So let's go ahead, we'll make the commit.
And then I want to head back to our terminal,
where we have a watch on our Canary.
Its status should flip here in a minute.
So, there you can see the Canary deployment just started.
Now let's head over to that second terminal,
and I'm going to describe the Canary once again.
You can see, it's starting to scale up new replicas.
Let's just keep an eye on this.
And every so often, I'm going to take a look
and see where it's at.
You can see right now the weight is at 5,
so it's routing some of the traffic there.
Let's go out,
and we can start sending a little bit of traffic.
So here's the Nginx controller.
If you remember that DNS label that we had,
now it's hosting our application, since it's been deployed.
Let's go back.
We'll take a look at how our Canary's doing.
You can see we're up to 20% of the traffic. Excellent.
We can head over to where we have the watch.
You can see it's still progressing.
It's telling us it's at 30 now.
Now it's up to 35.
It's at 40.
It's going to get promoted soon.
And there it's starting to promote
the new version of our container image.
So, there we can see the new version was promoted,
and we have successfully completed our Canary deployment.
Let's take one final look at the Canary,
and we can describe it,
and we can see all the steps that it went through there.
All right, so that's a look at how Flagger
uses a GitOps approach to progressive delivery.
And that rounds up our look at the different GitOps tools
that you can use.
They all use that GitOps pattern
to handle different pieces of operations
of a cloud native system.